-: Welcome back.
In this lecture, we are going to understand
about one more Kubernetes concept named Services.
So, we have multiple Kubernetes services available here
like Cluster IP, Node Port, Load Balancer,
Ingress, and then External Name.
So, let's see one after the other,
what are they on a very high level?
So, Cluster IP is used for communication
between applications inside the cluster.
Example, like you have front-end
and then backend application,
and then, they need to communicate each other,
so we can use Cluster IP.
So, the Cluster IP's network range
is inside the cluster, Kubernetes cluster.
So, let's say Node Port
So Node Port is used for accessing applications
outside of Kubernetes cluster using Worker Node Ports.
So, you have deployed a application Kubernetes cluster,
and then you want to access it from your browser.
So, you can expose that as a Node Port service,
so that using worker nodes respect to your port,
you'll be able to access outside of the Kubernetes cluster.
And the next is the Load Balancer Service.
So primarily, for cloud providers to integrate
with their Load Balancer services.
So example, if you take AWS.
In AWS, you'll have something called Elastic Load Balancer.
So, how you are going to use Kubernetes Manifest
to automatically provision a Load Balancer in AWS
so you can do all those things using Load Balancer Service.
And the next is Ingress.
So, Ingress is an advanced Load Balancer
which provides context path-based routing,
SSL enablement, and SSL redirect, and many more.
Example, you can compare it
with AWS application Load Balancer type of concepts.
So, it has all the HTTP-based features available
inside that, which you can leverage.
So, in the same way, the next is the External Name.
So, to access externally hosted apps, or databases,
or something inside your Kubernetes cluster,
so you can use External Name Service.
Example, for your application
which you have hosted in your Kubernetes cluster,
you have AWS RDS database, a cloud provider database,
and if you want to access it.
So, using that respect to databases, DNS name,
using External Name Service,
you will be able to access that in your Kubernetes cluster.
So, these are the core things available here.
As part of the fundamentals,
we already looked into Node Port Service.
Now, we are going to look into Cluster IP Service.
In addition to that, combining Node Port and Cluster IP,
we are going to implement a front-end, and then backend,
one example so that we get a complete picture
about Node Porting, then Cluster IP.
And Load Balancer, and then Ingress,
and then external Name, we'll focus on
when we are doing the respect to Cloud Provider courses.
So, let's move on and then understand
whatever we have discussed in a pictographic manner.
So, let's (indistinct) in a Kubernetes cluster,
you have deployed your backend application.
Example, like some REST services application
or whatever is your backend application.
And this backend application is currently
using a RDS database, which is in AWS.
So if you want to access
that from inside your Kubernetes cluster,
so you need to define it, DB External Name Service here.
In the same way, you have your front-end application, right?
And then this front-end application
need to access your backend application.
So, for that purpose,
you need to define your Cluster IP Service
in your Kubernetes cluster.
And now, your users want to access your application here
in the Kube, which is hosted in Kubernetes cluster.
So, for that purpose,
you will deploy your front-end service, okay?
So, it might be a Node Port service,
or Load Balancer service, or Ingress service.
So, based on the environment you are using,
and whatever is applicable for you,
accordingly, you can deploy that Ingress Service,
or Load Balancer service, or Node Port service.
So, all in all, this is the way
the services can be leveraged for us
inside Kubernetes cluster
in combination with external applications
or internal applications.
So, in our next lecture, we'll go ahead
and then implement our front-end
and then backend application
with Node Port and then Cluster IP.
So, I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye-bye. Thank you.